Data Link Layer is second layer of OSI Layered Model. This layer is one of the most complicated layers and has complex functionalities and liabilities.
Data link layer hides the details of underlying hardware and represents itself to upper layer as the medium to communicate.
Data link layer is responsible for converting data stream to signals bit by bit and to send that over the underlying hardware. At the receiving end,
Data link layer picks up data from hardware which are in the form of electrical signals, assembles them in a recognizable frame format,
and hands over to upper layer.
Data link layer does many tasks on behalf of upper layer. Framing, Addressing, Synchronization, Error Control, Flow Control and Multi-Access.
Errors in the received frames are detected by means of Parity Check and Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC). In both cases, few extra bits are sent along
with actual data to confirm that bits received at other end are same as they were sent. If the counter-check at receiver’ end fails, the bits are
considered corrupted.
In the digital world, error correction can be done in two ways:
Backward Error Correction  When the receiver detects an error in the data received, it requests back the sender to retransmit the data unit.
Forward Error Correction  When the receiver detects some error in the data received, it executes error-correcting code, which helps it to auto-recover
and to correct some kinds of errors.
When a data frame (Layer-2 data) is sent from one host to another over a single medium, it is required that the sender and receiver should work at the
same speed. That is, sender sends at a speed on which the receiver can process and accept the data. What if the speed (hardware/software) of the sender
or receiver differs? If sender is sending too fast the receiver may be overloaded, (swamped) and data may be lost.
When data-frame is transmitted, there is a probability that data-frame may be lost in the transit or it is received corrupted. In both cases,
the receiver does not receive the correct data-frame and sender does not know anything about any loss.In such case, both sender and receiver are
equipped with some protocols which helps them to detect transit errors such as loss of data-frame. Hence, either the sender retransmits the data-frame
or the receiver may request to resend the previous data-frame.
Requirements for error control mechanism:
Error detection  - The sender and receiver, either both or any, must ascertain that there is some error in the transit.
Positive ACK  - When the receiver receives a correct frame, it should acknowledge it.
Negative ACK  - When the receiver receives a damaged frame or a duplicate frame, it sends a NACK back to the sender and the sender must retransmit the correct frame.
Retransmission:  The sender maintains a clock and sets a timeout period. If an acknowledgement of a data-frame previously transmitted does not arrive
before the timeout the sender retransmits the frame, thinking that the frame or it’s acknowledgement is lost in transit.


