Physical layer in the OSI model plays the role of interacting with actual hardware and signaling mechanism. Physical layer is the only layer of OSI network
model which actually deals with the physical connectivity of two different stations. This layer defines the hardware equipment, cabling, wiring,
frequencies, pulses used to represent binary signals etc. Physical layer provides its services to Data-link layer. Data-link layer hands over frames to
physical layer. Physical layer converts them to electrical pulses, which represent binary data.The binary data is then sent over the wired or wireless
media.
Multiplexing is a technique to mix and send multiple data streams over a single medium. This technique requires system hardware called multiplexer (MUX)
 for multiplexing the streams and sending them on a medium, and de-multiplexer (DMUX) which takes information from the medium and distributes to different
 destinations. Data or information can be stored in two ways, analog and digital. For a computer to use the data, it must be in discrete digital form.
 Similar to data, signals can also be in analog and digital form. To transmit data digitally, it needs to be first converted to digital form.
 Microphones create analog voice and camera creates analog videos, which are treated is analog data. To transmit this analog data over digital signals,
 we need analog to digital conversion. Analog data is a continuous stream of data in the wave form whereas digital data is discrete.
 To convert analog wave into digital data, we use Pulse Code Modulation (PCM).
Amplitude Modulation
In this modulation, the amplitude of the carrier signal is modified to reflect the analog data. Amplitude modulation is implemented by means of a
 multiplier. The amplitude of modulating signal (analog data) is multiplied by the amplitude of carrier frequency, which then reflects analog data.
Frequency Modulation
In this modulation technique, the frequency of the carrier signal is modified to reflect the change in the voltage levels of the modulating
signal (analog data). The amplitude and phase of the carrier signal are not altered.
Phase Modulation
In the modulation technique, the phase of carrier signal is modulated in order to reflect the change in voltage (amplitude) of analog data signal.
Phase modulation is practically similar to Frequency Modulation, but in Phase modulation frequency of the carrier signal is not increased. Frequency of
carrier is signal is changed (made dense and sparse) to reflect voltage change in the amplitude of modulating signal.


















